### NoC: Network or Chip? | Israel Cidon

The  concept  of  a  communication  network  emerged,  many  times  in  the  past,  for  connecting  a  large  number    of    systems,    replacing    dedicated    point-to-point    connection    and    other    small-scale    interconnection  mechanisms.  Each  network  needs  to  provide  a  cost  effective  solution  for  a  large  number  of  possibly  conflicting  requirements  such  as  flexibility,  scalability,  reliability  and  performance.  Therefore,  the  task  of  network  architects  and  designers  is  to  solve  multiple  instances  of  a  complex  constrained  optimization  problem  resulting  in  numerous  and  diverse  network  solutions.  For  example,  there   are   different   standards   and   architectures   associated   with   interconnection   networks,   home   networks, LANs, MANs, WANs and wireless networks.     In this talk we will map common lessons and concepts from the networking research to the emerging NoC field.  We will also argue that the NoC optimization problem consists of several distinguished types that should lead to multiple diverse solutions.    NoC network layer architectures pose new challenges in exploring solutions to traditional networking problems  such  as  routing,  quality-of-service,  flow  and  congestion  control  and  reliability.  The  unique  characteristics of silicon chips require new solutions to these classical problems, and define a new set of NoC  specific  problems,  such  as  automatic  network  design  process,  power  and  area  optimization  and  specialized  system  functionalities.  We  will  speculate  which  class  of  solutions  is  likely  to  fit  the  different  NoC types.


### Analysis and Evaluation of Circuit Switched NoC and Packet Switched NoC | Zhonghai Lu et al.
Circuit switched NoC has, compared to packet switching, a longer setup time, guaranteed throughput and latency, higher clock frequency, lower HW complexity, and higher energy efficiency. Depending on packet size and throughput requirements they exhibit better or worse performance. In this paper we designed a circuit switched NoC and compared that with packet switched NoC. By speculation and analysis, we propose that, as packet size increases, performance decreases for packet switched NoC, while it increases for circuit switched NoC. By close examination on the router architecture, we suggest that circuit switched NoC can operate at a higher clock frequency than packet switched NoC, and thus at zero load above a certain packet size circuit switched NoC could be better than packet switched NoC in packet delay. Experiment results support our intuitions and analysis. We find the cross-over point, above which circuit switching has lower latency, is around 30 flits/packet under low load and 60-70 flits/packet under high network load.
